adding observability (#6379)
aws/eks-anywhere: docs/content/en/docs/clustermgmt/observability/_index.md

---

> title: "Observability in EKS Anywhere"

Reviewer: This needs to just be "Observability" for the linkTitle

linkTitle: "Observability in EKS Anywhere"
date: 2017-01-05
weight: 40
description: >
  Observability in EKS Anywhere
---

> Amazon Web Services (AWS) offers comprehensive monitoring, logging, alarming, and dashboard capabilities through Amazon CloudWatch. This powerful tool allows for centralized logging for EKS Anywhere, an on-premises version of AWS's managed Kubernetes. With CloudWatch, organizations can take advantage of a highly scalable, native AWS logging and monitoring solution.

Reviewer: Remove the 2nd sentence and change the third to "With CloudWatch, organizations can take advantage of a highly scalable, native AWS observability solution for centralized logging for EKS Anywhere."

CloudWatch Logs delivers enhanced log visibility, independent of the log source. CloudWatch Logs is available for EKS environments, as well as for EKS Anywhere providers such as vSphere, Bare Metal, Snow, CloudStack, and Nutanix. This unified solution ensures a consistent flow of events, seamlessly ordered by time, facilitating ease of analysis and troubleshooting.

The flexibility of CloudWatch Logs enables users to perform queries and sorting based on various dimensions, providing a deep level of granularity in log analysis. Additionally, logs can be grouped using specific fields, allowing for more focused insights and targeted problem-solving.

> Amazon CloudWatch also facilitates the creation of intuitive, data-rich dashboards, enabling log data visualization for enhanced monitoring and decision-making.

Reviewer: Remove "Amazon" from "Amazon CloudWatch"

Reviewer: I think we could even remove this entire sentence, we already describe what CloudWatch does

## Observability in EKS Anywhere

> Step through the following content to configure EKS Anywhere Cluster to scrape metrics and send them to [Amazon CloudWatch](https://aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch/) (CloudWatch).

Reviewer: "... to configure an EKS Anywhere cluster to scrape metrics and logs and send them to ..."

Reviewer: Remove the (CloudWatch) at the end

1. [Create a cluster with IAM Roles for Service Account (IRSA)](#create-a-cluster-with-irsa).
1. [Verify Cluster]({{< relref "./cluster-verify" >}}).
1. [Install Fluentbit and Configure an EKS service account to assume an IAM role]({{< relref "./loggingSetup" >}}).
1. [Deploy Test Application]({{< relref "../../workloadmgmt/test-app" >}})

> 

Reviewer: Can we change this to add 1 sentence for each step? It's odd how we have the content for IRSA on the bottom of this page but link out for the other 3 steps. 

For example

1. Create an EKS Anywhere cluster with IAM Roles for Service Account (IRSA): With IRSA, an IAM role can be associated with a Kubernetes service account to enable pods to authenticate to AWS services without hardcoding AWS security credentials on your machine.
2. Verify EKS Anywhere cluster was created successfully: Check key resources on your EKS Anywhere cluster to ensure the cluster is up and running.
3. Install Fluentbit for CloudWatch: ...

Reviewer: We need to describe the high-level steps somewhere instead of just having links

---
title: "Observability in EKS Anywhere"
linkTitle: "Observability in EKS Anywhere"
date: 2017-01-05
weight: 40
description: >
  Observability in EKS Anywhere
---

Amazon Web Services (AWS) offers comprehensive monitoring, logging, alarming, and dashboard capabilities through Amazon CloudWatch. This powerful tool allows for centralized logging for EKS Anywhere, an on-premises version of AWS's managed Kubernetes. With CloudWatch, organizations can take advantage of a highly scalable, native AWS logging and monitoring solution.

> CloudWatch Logs, delivers enhanced log visibility, independent of the log source. CloudWatch Logs is available for EKS environments, as well as for EKS Anywhere providers such as vSphere, Bare Metal, Snow, CloudStack, and Nutanix. This unified solution ensures a consistent flow of events, seamlessly ordered by time, facilitating ease of analysis and troubleshooting.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
CloudWatch Logs delivers enhanced log visibility, independent of the log source. CloudWatch Logs is available for EKS environments, as well as for EKS Anywhere providers such as vSphere, Bare Metal, Snow, CloudStack, and Nutanix. This unified solution ensures a consistent flow of events, seamlessly ordered by time, facilitating ease of analysis and troubleshooting.
```

The flexibility of CloudWatch Logs enables users to perform queries and sorting based on various dimensions, providing a deep level of granularity in log analysis. Additionally, logs can be grouped using specific fields, allowing for more focused insights and targeted problem-solving.

Amazon CloudWatch also facilitates the creation of intuitive, data-rich dashboards, enabling log data visualization for enhanced monitoring and decision-making.

## Observability in EKS Anywhere

> This tutorial demonstrates how to configure EKS Anywhere Cluster to scrape metrics and send them to [Amazon CloudWatch](https://aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch/) (CloudWatch).
> 
> This tutorial walks through the following procedures:
> - [Create a cluster with IAM Roles for Service Account (IRSA)](#create-a-cluster-with-irsa).
> - [Verify Cluster]({{< relref "./cluster-verify" >}}).
> - [Install Fluentbit and Configure an EKS service account to assume an IAM role]({{< relref "./loggingSetup" >}}).
> - [Deploy Test Application]({{< relref "../../workloadmgmt/test-app" >}})
> 
> {{% alert title="Note" color="primary" %}}
> 
> - We included `Test` sections for critical steps to help users to validate they have completed such procedure properly. We recommend going through them in sequence as checkpoints of the progress.
> - We recommend creating all resources in the `us-west-2` region.
> 
> {{% /alert %}}
> 
> ## Create a cluster with IRSA
> An IAM role can be associated with a Kubernetes service account. This service account can then provide AWS permissions to the containers in any pod that uses that service account. With this feature, there will be no need to hardcode AWS security credentials as environment variables on your machine. [EKS Anywhere cluster spec for Pod IAM]({{< relref "../../getting-started/optional/irsa/" >}}) gives step-by-step guidance on how to do so.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Step through the following content to configure EKS Anywhere Cluster to scrape metrics and send them to [Amazon CloudWatch](https://aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch/) (CloudWatch).

1. [Create a cluster with IAM Roles for Service Account (IRSA)](#create-a-cluster-with-irsa). An IAM role can be associated with a Kubernetes service account. This service account can then provide AWS permissions to the containers in any pod that uses that service account. With this feature, there will be no need to hardcode AWS security credentials as environment variables on your machine. [EKS Anywhere cluster spec for Pod IAM]({{< relref "../../getting-started/optional/irsa/" >}}) gives step-by-step guidance on how to do so.
1. [Verify Cluster]({{< relref "./cluster-verify" >}}).
1. [Install Fluentbit and Configure an EKS service account to assume an IAM role]({{< relref "./loggingSetup" >}}).
1. [Deploy Test Application]({{< relref "../../workloadmgmt/test-app" >}})

{{% alert title="Note" color="primary" %}}

- We included `Test` sections for critical steps to help users to validate they have completed such procedure properly. We recommend going through them in sequence as checkpoints of the progress.
- We recommend creating all resources in the `us-west-2` region.

{{% /alert %}}
```
We don't generally put tutorials in overview pages. But I think this is a valuable set of steps that I think works better in the way I suggested above. Feel free to disagree.

description: >
  Observability
---

> Amazon Web Services (AWS) offers comprehensive monitoring, logging, alarming, and dashboard capabilities through Amazon CloudWatch. This powerful tool allows for centralized logging for EKS Anywhere, an extension of AWS's managed Kubernetes service. With CloudWatch, organizations can take advantage of a highly scalable, native AWS logging and monitoring solution.

Author: Thanks @chrisnegus , done the changes

> CloudWatch Logs, delivers enhanced log visibility, independent of the log source, encompassing vSphere, Bare Metal, Snow, CloudStack, Nutanix, or EKS environments. This unified solution ensures a consistent flow of events, seamlessly ordered by time, facilitating ease of analysis and troubleshooting.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
CloudWatch Logs delivers enhanced log visibility, independent of the log source. CloudWatch Logs is available for EKS environments, as well as for EKS Anywhere providers such as vSphere, Bare Metal, Snow, CloudStack, and Nutanix. This unified solution ensures a consistent flow of events, seamlessly ordered by time, facilitating ease of analysis and troubleshooting.
```
Some suggested wording changes.

Author: Thanks @chrisnegus , Done the changes
